
HASHDEEP FILE FORMAT VERSION 1.0

1. INTRODUCTION

This file documents the hashdeep file format. These files are generated 
by hashdeep and contain a list of names, hashes, and sizes of files. 
This documentation pertains to version 1.0 of the file format and was 
last updated on 14 Jan 2009.


2. REVISION HISTORY

14 Jan 2009 - Initial version (jk)


3. FILE HEADER

The first line of the file is a header, like this:

%%%% HASHDEEP-1.0

This line identifies the version of the file format being used, not 
necessarily the version of the hashdeep program.

The second line starts with four percent signs (%%%%) and then 
identifies the columns in the remainder of the file. The first column 
must be the file size and the last column must be the filename. Legal 
values for the other columns are the names of the supported hash 
algorithms. These names are: md5, sha1 or sha-1, sha256 or sha-256, 
whirlpool, and tiger. No other column names are supported. There should 
be a space between the percent signs and the first column name, but no 
spaces between the column names themselves. Note also that filename is 
one word.

Here is a sample second line:

%%%% size,md5,sha256,filename


4. COMMENTS

Any line after the header that begins with a pound sign (#) is 
considered a comment and ignored. The hashdeep program normally inserts 
several lines of comments noting from which directory the program was 
invoked, the command line used to invoke it, and a blank comment line.


5. KNOWN FILES

After the comments are the known files. Each line should contain a 
series of comma separated values corresponding to the columns listed in 
the file header. Thus the first column must always be the file's size 
and the last column must be filename. None of the values should be 
quoted. If there are more commas than expected, the additional commas 
are considered part of the filename. Using the file header from above, 
here is a sample set of lines:

3184,bf4956fabeea95b002c53fedbe10204d,49c3a0a53815d1d87bf9f481e96bee6b5e8494f7465653a4c3d45853cfcae7a7,/home/jessek/bar
16382,1ba3d8b07d7a103a3bbc7227a0174f91,b48aa24698f3429467c8c0c1e83c9ef609636803918b661bd03fbede017849d1,/home/jessek/foo

